On Errors

Once the formulas for the option Greeks were coded in Python, it became necessary to check that the calculated values were correct.

So how did I do that?
Initially I attempted to reconcile my calculated values against the values returned by online calculators.
I was quite shocked to discover that those calculated values did not agree with each others.

The spreadsheet Regression_tests__greeks_claculation.xlsm contains the comparison results from the top online calculators returned by the Google query "Call option greek calculator2"

As the time of writing, the returned sites were

	www.quantpie.co.uk
	www.option-price.com
	www.math.drexel.edu
	pineify.app

The delta and gamma results were in agreeement, the vega, theta and rho were not. 
The value we calculated for PV was out in the 4th decimal place with all the other sites, which all agreed with it other.

So if the calculators don't agree with each other, what are the correct values for the Greeks?

Since there was a small difference in PV between us and all the other sites, that seemed like a good place to begin.
The values chosen as input generated simple intermediate values (e.g. S = K = 2500, d1 = 0.35, d2 = 0.15) 
which made it simple to reproduce in the spreadsheet.

Our spreadsheet consistently disagreed with the other sites in the 4th decimal place (7th significant figure).
The difference could be down to 
* an error in our formula - but this seems unlikely since it remained close to the other sites to 6 significant figures.
* a rounding error in our implementation - Excel use 15 digit numbers but it is possible that these sites used fewer digits in their calculations.
* difference in the values return by our normal distribution cdf, and those used by the other sites.

We attempted to see if the difference was down to rounding by using the Excel ROUND() to round intermediate steps in the calculation.
Rounding intermediate steps did indeed cause the calculated values to move around, but it did not reproduce the values produced on the other sites. See coulmns J,K,L,M on the spreadsheet.
Once precision reached 8 digits, out code consistently produced a PV of 261.2646.
The only conclusion was the the difference was not down to simple rounding.
 
The other possibility is that the implementation of the normal distribution cdf did not match our implementation.
We began looking a various online cdf calculation, but after some checking, it appears that these were consistent with our implementation.
However we do not have access to the code used to calculate the online Greeks so it is not possible to tell.
 
At some point, we decided that the difference between PV values was acceptable. i.e. Our PV calculation was acceptable.
By what about the other Greeks?
 
Here we went back to the original purpose of the Greeks. 

Delta = d(PV)/dS where d(PV) and d(S) are infinitesimals - an approximate value can be calculated by using a very small value for d(S).

Similar calculations were made for Gamma, Vega, Theta, Rho. See "Using shifting the underlying" section of the spreadsheet.

All the calculations agree roughly with our calculation, and the www.quantpie.co.uk site.

All in all, a sobering lesson how easy it is to get the numbers wrong and how important it is to have a robust method of checking those numbers.


 


